[Unearthed in a broom cupboard at the Bull’s Head Hotel, a small box
of field notes from the EOAE-TC team of scientists and inventors
reveals more about their untimely exit from Treak Cliff. A few less
technical excerpts from the field notebooks and printed email
exchanges found there are extracted as follows:]

1- November 23, 2010: We finally made it to Treak Cliff! After months
of wrangling resources and equipment, fighting against either the
stuffy bureaucracy of local officials, paranoid research colleagues
and the ever more conspiratorial organisations, I can’t believe that
we’ve arrived, lugging our first survey equipment through the light
drizzle into the darkness of the abandoned cave. The first glimpses of
fluorite and feldspar, damp and sheer crystalline under our powerful
LED torch beams, reaffirms our belief that this site provides near
perfect geologic and telluric conditions for our research.

This afternoon we collectively meditated on how well our research
slogan, borrowed from pioneer astrologer and astronomer, Tycho Brahe,
fits the site:

“Despiciendo suspicio - Suspiciendo despicio.” 
“By looking down, I see upward. By looking up, I see downward.”

Either all earthly and cosmic signals decay and are destroyed, or all
such signals are preserved and stored, as it were. There can be no
middle ground. This is what we came here for — we will test and
measure the extremes to these twinned theses. The local feldspar or
Blue John as it’s known, is the perfect filter medium, doubly
refracting all terrestrial and extraterrestrial signals; a quantum
bifurcation which marks our very research question - decay, in all its
senses, or ultimate preservation.

We will establish here at Treak Cliff cavern the first independent
underground terrestrial AND cosmic observatory. The Shift Register
Earth Array Observatory can proudly be listed as a key site alongside
the likes of AMANDA Ice, Creighton Nickel Mine, Dumand, East Rand,
Lead Homestake South Dakota, Sanford CASPAR Underground, Soudan
Underground Minnesota, and the Sudbury Neutrino Observatory.

But it’s time now to shift registers, as we always like to joke... The
first surveys need to be prepared in order to plan and site the three
core structures: Descent, Decay and Death. And later a celebratory
whiskey in the Bull’s Head; our temporary base and ad-hoc “dry” lab
for this project.


January 12, 2011: One by one our storage devices have failed, or
simply proved too unreliable, necessitating endless backups and
re-calibrations of equipment. We are forced to rely on whatever older
media we can beg, steal or borrow from the kind folk at the Bull’s
Head; floppy disk drives, old hard drives scrounged over breakfast -
the older, and more obsolete the better it seems! It’s as if the cave
is forcing us to travel back in time, reducing our bandwidth as we go,
driving us back to a literal stone age.

Some kind of entanglement at a quantum level, between observation and
equipment, was bound to happen. Despite being accused by our peers of
enacting poor science, we’re no fools. A simple binding at the micro
level, between instrumentation and cosmic ray flux or density is
written into our equations and software by default. Our thesis of
preservation or decay must contend with the fact that in the moment of
their very capture by instrumentation, through the fact of their sheer
observation, the energies of the cosmos are consumed; they die out. We
are subtended by this data, we must rewrite this data.

Yet we are fulfilling our own prophecies. As if tracking this
compulsion, from day one, back at the bar, well pub, we watch endless
re-runs of Nigel Kneale’s 70’s TV Movie “The Stone Tape”. The haunted
Victorian mansion, plagued by media-ghosts, feels positively idyllic
in contrast to the damp claustrophobia of our cavern, endless repairs
to barely functional equipment conducted in possibly the worst
conditions we’ve ever encountered. To view the stars we’ve buried
ourselves in this dark and unforgiving English pit! Tycho Brahe must
have had an easier life.

Gary, a friendly local and the cave’s manager, told us when we first
met that sometimes he hears voices when he’s in there, all quiet and
alone. He wondered if the cave could store these messages from the
past, acting as some kind of potentially magnetic medium. A not
unreasonable speculation with all that iron and magnetite locked into
the infrastructure of its crystal matrices. We asked him if he’s ever
seen the “The Stone Tape”, as his description mirrors the plot so
exactly. His response was, “nope”.

June 20th 2013:

Outside the cavern the sun is at its highest. The solar flair cycle is
peaking, perhaps unbalancing our mental weathers and locking us ever
deeper into entanglements between observation and environment at a non
quantum level. Our sketched equations, overflowing the drawers and
cupboards of the Bull’s Head, skew one way and then the other -
seesawing bipolar math moods which attempt to adapt to the twinned
extremes of decay or safe-keeping, pre-servere, as they say.

Over our heads and beneath our feet all our data is being
re-written. On our official documents the word “depth” has become
“death”... Slipping into hyperbole, hyperstition. Hypnotic, this
entrance and exit to the underground.

Our bandwidth is excessively reduced - cosmic data is now written
slowly as singular ones and zeroes within a wiry, woven structure of
ferrite beads which Kemp busily sewed last night. We barely
communicate. He remains silent.

When we read back we destroy this information, when we measure we
consume this energy. Each destruction means that we must effect
inscription, we must re-store in order to maintain any
measurement. What have we learned from the vastness of our data
empires other than the importance of backing up? As insane as it may
seem to some, it is imperative that we back up the cosmos.

As we descend, we are always re-cycling.








