// we cut dream:

I have only seen this place in dreams but now I am there. A priest,
all grey with frozen dew, leads us from his house which is crammed
with artefacts from a burnt-out church, crispated altar paintings, out
into his garden. Chickens, uncooped, run wildly at our feet, slyly
drenched in the thunder storm. He opens a stout metal gate set into
the knolled hillside one corner of the garden, inside the chicken
enclosure, and takes us into the narrow, dully shining adit, leading us with
the light from one smartphone into the coffined irregularity of the
ancient, hewn walls.

In a stage-set museum mine, a geologist in stout boots, tells us
that the main ore vein is cursed, that all of the evil over so many
years existing in the mountain mining town comes from this ore
body. He translates its glowing name as drift or drifting. It is
always moving. He says that the one who lives in this sort of
disorder, mined like a sewer, spread it around them like an infectious
disease, a nebulous miasma.


///// re-incorporate:


our destinies are dictated astrally, by an ascending or descending
sentience, but this particular starry outside is mucally involuted
inside and outside the flesh of words (Zosimos fumes, TM ending)



Astral bodies, those cosmic waters of the tarn, were primordially
rended from the terrestrial body, our filthy prima materia by the
lake or mirror god.

how we go from inverted astrology - sunk in the lake, to the fumes,
entry to hell and prophecy, to exhaling chasm - a gas-exhaling
oracular chasm

sissel lake:

A ritual where the blood of the cut throat runs from the living body
into the waters that gives the community life and sustenance. The
blood and the body is given to the gods through the portal of the bog.

gold fibres dissolved in the lake are set to colour it blood-red as a
sunset acid mine drainage, a sacrifice for the mirror god

rare gold-ruby glass - a two-phase system comprising discrete tiny
particles of excited metallic gold which are dispersed in a silicate
glass matrix.

the lake as important  - list these lakes... doublings, doubles - the
2 worlds in patricia and how this might relate to the book - to
finally get there talking about that


doublings:

the many doublings, ever geology and its double, calcite or
hermaphrodited twin (in the landscape)


Perhaps the geological implies the very figure of the double, against
the day, the figure of reason and the unconscious. what of the
rending?

marder - this strange twin of the becoming geological and
the anti-geological 

it cannot be anything but double in not being able to bear a full
light, a full realisation of death always, of what this life stands
against.

It is as if two Earths overlay their strata. The one is the Earth as
it is, a dying modality of individual emergences and diminishments
which humans accelerate, the Earth where the human abides. The second
is the human geostrata of Earth made of use value and exploitation,
the Earth for the human.
[patricia]

lakes:

- sunset lake from TEH - vermilion cyanide pool -
- engendering and reflecting crystal blooms
- swampy lake of ballard
- tarn of poe
- lake as burial pool in Sissel
- lakes of tears

body is celestial - the celestial comes before

fumes are the sacrifices, astral fumes, demons

However, the demons of place/location did not fulfil even the false promises that
they had made. But when there had resulted a complete change-round of
the /klimata/ and the region was devastated by war and the human race
disappeared from it. When the temples of /daimons/ were nothing but a
desert and their sacrifices were neglected, they began to flatter the
surviving men and persuaded them by dream, on account of their
falsity, and by many presages, to adhere to the sacrifices. And as
they renewed their false promises of non-natural tinctures, all the
unhappy men, devoted to pleasure and ignorant, were filled with
rejoicing. 

They want to do all this to you too, woman, through the intervention
of their pseudo-prophet. These local /daimons/ flatter you; for they
hungry not only for sacrifices, but also for your soul.

When the [daimonic] guardians are driven off from the great men they
[the daimons] deliberate as to how they may lay claim to our
natural tinctures, so as not to be driven away by men, but venerated
and invoked, and nourished with sacrifices. This is what they
did. They concealed all the natural and self-regulating tinctures (ta
physika kai automata), not only out of envy, but giving heed also to
their own sustenance, so that they would not be whipped, chased away,
and punished with hunger through the cessation of the sacrifices. They
acted as follows. They hid the natural tincture and introduced their
non-natural tincture, and gave these to their priests; and if the
common people were neglectful of the sacrifices, they hindered them
even in attaining the non-natural tinctures (Fest. p. 366,
ll. 18-26)35. 

Fraser p.141

[the daimon's] pneumatic part grows fat, for it lives on vapours and
exhalations, in a complex fashion and from complex sources, and it
draws power from the smoke that rises from industrial chimneys and
server farms.

[Porphyry. On Abstinence]

// 

also fumes:

Something is rotten here - from Delphi article: The rotting of the
snake is the source of the site's original name Pytho (=rotten). The
serpent was said to have lived in the sacred chasm that became her
garve and the mantic vapours derived from her corpse. [Geomythology at
Delphi]




** questions 20/9+ and addings/endings

we need 2300 words for 5 pages, 2700 for 6 ... with two images on extra page

what of footnotes also...






///////////////////////////////////////////

Seismic upheavals in the mind disrupt this cosmic, hairy earth. 

// maybe keep for next part:


Technology is
thus extracted from the environment at the same time as being an
extension into that landscape, reaching into and grabbing, and equally
providing a means of representation of that exhausted space; the
anthopocene is depicted using the materials of its glossed becoming.


But the presence of so many soldiers and military vehicles, and the
wan-faced townsfolk evacuating their homes, ensured that the little
enclave of the transfigured forest – by comparison the remainder of
the Everglades basin seemed a drab accumulation of peat, muck and
marls – would soon be obliterated, the crystal trees dismembered and
carried away to a hundred antiseptic laboratories.
[J.G. Ballard, 'The Illuminated Man', in The Terminal Beach, London:
Phoenix, (1964) 1992, p.81]

The matter of the Magnum Opus is the subject on which the philosophers
exercised their practical science. All who have written on the art
have concealed the true name of this matter, as the chief key of
chemistry. Having potentially all the qualities and properties of
elementary things, they have given it the names of all kinds of
things. It is a fifth element, a quintessence, the material beginning
and end of all things. It is the matter of which the Heavens are
composed, says the Hermetic author. It is the quintessence of our
sublunary matter, the soul of the elements, which preserves all things
sublunary from destruction, and from corruption. It is the bird of
Hermes, which descends continually from heaven to earth, and as
continually ascends and goes back from earth to heaven. It is even as
the mysterious ladder of the vision of Jacob the prophet, whereon the
angels of God for ever came and went between earth, and the world
which is above the earth. It is also the seeds of bodies, even the
seminal life of all things, whether vegetable, animal, or mineral,
which do propagate and continue their species by means of seminal
generation. Now the seed of bodies is the first matter of the
chemists; and this matter is found only in the seed of bodies. But
each seed is to be found after its own kind, in its own species. There
is a seed of individuals, according to the three Kingdoms of Nature,
and this seed is diverse in each. In the mineral Kingdom, it is called
a Sperm, and this sperm is the Sulphur of Metals-an unctuous,
sulphureous, and mercurial vapour, says Aristotle. Finis. [Ruland]

Adarner - Adrop - Asrob - Agnean - Eagle - Alartar - Alabar - Aevis -
Alkaest - Alcharit - Alembroth - Alinagra - Almisada - Aludel - Alun -
Abzernad - Amalgra - Anathron - Androgyne - Antimony - Aremaros -
Arnec - Arsenic - Asmarcech - Azoth - Borax - Boritis - Caduceus -
Cain - Chyle – The Cock - Dragon - Ebisemeth - Embryo - Euphrates -
Eve - Feces - Flower of the Sun - Hermaphrodite - Hyle - Infinite -
Isis - Kibrish - Laton - Lion - Magnes - Magnesia - Mars - Menstruum -
Mother - Orient - Salamander - Sonig - Sulphur - Tincture of Metals -
Vapour - Lord of the Stones - The Bull - The Sea - The West - Bird of
Hermes - Shadow of the Sun - Philosophical Stone - Animal Stone -
Lead - Spring - Vegetable Liquor - The Moon - The Garden - The
Spouse - Summer - The Woman - The Son of the Sun and the Moon - Water
of Life - Water of Gold - The Belly of the Ostrich - Anger - Butter -
May Blossom - Golden Wood - The Tree - Silver - Whiteness - Soul of
Saturn - The Lamb.

???? The geopoetic body informs and enables articulations, formations,
ingestions of inhalations of particulate matter, uranium-235,
conduits, fracking, descents, carbon dating, deep time, metals, the
cut, bedrocks, cavities, caves, chasms, tailings, leachings,
radiometric dating, orogenesis, dumps , lithologies, stratigraphies,
mineral resources, extractions, boundaries, outcrops, chronologies,
leachates, sulphides, percolations

A container subjects itself to a
descriptive dissolution, to the recursive effects of its own
signs. Hardware dissolves itself as a function or extent of its own
functions, as a necessity. It is and is not a palimpsest.

one direction: evidence sentience of the vegetal, of stones, in the still waters of the tarn
(its endurance) -> moulded the destinies of humans, makes us how we
are seen now, what i am

humans put sentience into the landscape, extending itself as
technology - recursion again but how does that come to inverted
astrology

the heavens - underground is the past, overground is the future...

As above, so below: loving are the astral bodies that hold court over
the repose of our tortured flesh.

Inverted astrology and interior astronomy, lower astronomy (in the
words and diagrams of alchemist George Ripley "encoding his alchemical
ingredients as planets that orbited the earthly elements at the core
of the work.") and inferior geology, a geomantic open casting of the
deeper earth bodies 

*switch round poe/usher to get to inverted astrology/inferior
astronomy - how that works*

of what we need to mention -> theory we have(marder - dump, place gone mad, moyn we havepatr,filth), bog bodies we have, bezoar,
miasma we have, tears - thread more of content into the above!

sisselx, pharamrosemary, miasma_rosa, bezoarA, anais-tears/image,
cecilia-iron ring- remediation

His
tannery dog, middle aged, crowned hat, vomits old silver coins and
terse liquid on his boots. He brought it up again, this colloidal and
dewy morning.
